Alright let's get started with this
section and right away I've got a
question for you, did that visualization
that you saw in the previous tutorial in
the video,
did it seem complicated? Well actually
it's not it's not hard to put together
all and you will be surprised how
quickly we will deliver that
visualization. It will take us literally
three tutorials in this tutorial. We'll
connect to the datasets in the next
tutorial. We will create the
visualization and in the tutorial after
that we will add their animations all in
three tutorials, that's quick. So let's
get right into it.
So here's the data that we downloaded.
It's in section 5 animations and we've
got four files here so let's go through,
so what is country meta data? Country
meta data is basically your list of
countries of the world, so there's 215 of
them here and what it is showing us it's
got a country code so that's going to be
useful field for us the region where the
country's from. So the regions are a bit
different to what you saw in the video.
They these regions are taken from the
World Bank classification, so we'll just
keep them as is here but just bear in
mind that the colors might be a bit
different to watch in the video then
it's got some additional data which we
won't be using but it's still here
nevertheless. So that's our country meta data.
Country population, so this file
presents us with I'll just make it a bit
more here. So this file presents us with
once again, the list of countries and
once again this thread 215 of them here.
Country code, the indicator name so this
is the indicator the country population
is the indicator in this case, indicated
color call according to the world bank
and then it's got the data of the
population for each one of these
countries for the 50 for the past 50,
just over 50 years from 1960-
2013 so there
we go, that's our population data and the
remaining files look very similar to
that so we've got the fertility rate,
same thing different indicators name, so
keep that in mind because that will be
important when we are connecting these
datasets here's got a
her to fertility rates also for the same
years and finally we got life expectancy
same thing so another different
indicator and already we can see that
we're going to have to do a pivot
because this is not the best for me to
present but we are already very
comfortable with pivots by now it's
going to be very easy for us. So let's go
ahead and close all of these, so that we
can connect to them.
Here's my Tableau workbook, going to
connect to an excel file and doesn't
matter which one we start with connect
to country meta data.
There we go so there's a file down at
the bottom here, we've got the country
name, the country code so this file
we're going to be using to get the
region. This is what we're getting from
this file the rest of the information
doesn't really matter for us we don't
need to do a pivot here so it's going to
another data set excel and this time
we're going to look at population so
here we've got our date range right away
let's create this pivot select the dates
drop-down pivot and a red surname this
to year and this one is going to be
population perfect so as you can see
we've got the country name but we don't
have the region. We'll get the region from
the metadata from the metadata workbook,
worksheet. Ok excel so we put down
population fertility rates same thing
all the way 2013 and just clear on any
one of them click pivot and this one's
going to rename this to year again and
this one is going to be our fertility
rate. A bit of tedious work but that's
what data preparation is all about.
We're pretty lucky here that this is how
this is the full extent of what we're
going to have to do with our data so
one more to go and pivot there we go. So
rename this is going to be here and what
are we looking at here
life expectancy.
Alright so there are data sets and as
you have probably guessed we are not
doing joins in this case we are going
to be using blends in this section of
the course and that's because we've
already connected to our datasets. If you
would like to do this through joins then
by all means you can still achieve the
same result through join. Of course your
process of creating a position be
different be different but in our case
we are going to go ahead with blends and
that is why before we finish off this
tutorial, we have to correct one little
thing for the upcoming blends and that
is the relationships between data. So if
you go into data and relationships and
let's say let's select one that we're
going to use as our primary data source
and visualization and right away a hint
we are not going to use meta data because it
doesn't have year and we're going to
need year for the animation so you can
select any one of the other three
datasets. I'm just going to start country
population and what you'll find here is
the way it's going to be blended with
the rest of the data sets. Now in here,
you will notice that Tableau has
automatically picked up some of the
field that is going to be blending on
and the way it picks them up is it just
looks for matching names. So I feel that
is present in this data set the primary
data source and secondary data source
and if the name matches then it's going
to blend on them.
Well that's okay most of the time but in
our cas,e it's actually not. So country
code is a right country name is alright,
but indicator code is not alright, as
we saw indicator code is the code for
the file. So in this case, in country
population indicated code is going to be
relating to country population. In case
of fertility rate, it's going to be a
different code and same thing for
indicating name because it is relating
to the file. So we have to remove these
two, so we're going to go ahead and do
that we're going to remove indicate a
code and indicate a name so that the
blend goes ahead correctly and also
we're going to remove country name and
that is because we don't need that. We
country code is sufficient to blend the
data. We want to blend it on year and
country code, so we want to match up
population and fertility rate for the
country and for the correct year but
country name is excessive right? So if
you have country code you don't need
country name already and also be careful
these things
if for some reason one of the files
country names are spelled a bit
differently or there's an extra symbol
or there's no spaces or hyphens or
something that. So even if one of the
country's spelled differently in one of the
files, you might run into problems.
Country codes are much more reliable
that sense so I prefer to stick with
country codes and get rid of country
names. So we're going to do that and
we're also going to do the same for the
rest of the file. So life expectancy at
birth,
we just want to keep country code and
year and metadata there is no year here
so we just want to keep country code. So
just look through them once again
sometimes this happens when you're
working with a couple I think it's maybe
a glitch just keeps coming back so just
make sure that you don't have any of
those situations there we go
country code year and go here and just
control and click OK and maybe just
double-check that.
There we go so which one we're looking
at population and just looking at how
its connecting. If you choose to change
your primary data source, make sure to
perform that as well for the other data
sources because here as you can see it
hasn't been corrected but we're going to
stick with population as our primary
data source and we will get started on
the visualization and actually finish
the visualization to in the next
tutorial I look forward to seeing you
then and until next time, happy analyzing.